---
published: true
---
## Choices

As I sit here in dialysis, I am thinking about choices. Everything we do is a choice. I remember when I first started treatments in Idaho, a tech in my clinic said that dialysis was always my choice. Any time I could say no, and stop. I could go home, say goodbye to the needles and the pain and all the junk that comes with it - for about three weeks. That’s how long it would take for me to succumb to the toxins and fluids that would accumulate in my system without dialysis.

Every day I have to make choices. I wake up in the morning, and I have to choose how I’m going to spend the little bit of energy I actually have. It is a struggle to rise from the bed, but then I must find a way to be a husband, a father, a pastor, and an employee. It’s a lot of demand on a very small supply. Truthfully, every day gets a little bit harder. It’s constantly taking a harder toll on my family. Each person handles it in their own way, but I see the lines appearing. Jerica in particular is having a hard time coping - I can hardly leave her sight without her crying out to find out where I am. Multiple times a day she tells me how she doesn’t want me to die. Because of this, I try to be stronger. I don’t want any of them to worry, though I know it’s impossible. I hear testimonies about kids who never even knew their parents were sick because they stayed so strong. I long for that strength. Last night I was praying and just started crying on the floor because of how heavy this all is, and it was my four year old daughter who wiped the tears away. Strength to protect them from everything seems to elude me. So instead I’ve started to strive to at least lead by example, to show them that all those sermons about God strengthening us in our weakness were not just empty words.

The demands on all fronts just seem to grow, and not just with the family. Work is more demanding than I can ever remember it being. As the church grows, and thank God that it is growing, but it comes with growing pains. As anyone who’s ever planted or pastored a church knows, the weight of responsibility that we will some day stand and give account of what we did with God’s church, how well we shepherded God’s people, it is a heavy load under the best of circumstances. It is one of constant doubt. Am I making the right decisions? Am I truly called to do this? Am I helping my people more than I’m hurting them? Is the example I’m setting a good one? So many questions, and most with answers I’ll never know this side of eternity. 

It is a lot, and sometimes I question my choices that led me here. Was there some way to better prepare for this day? Do I really have the strength to keep all these different areas of my life afloat? The truth, though, is that there really is no choice. No more than stopping dialysis is. To stop is to let something die. So somehow, someway, I have to find the strength to keep going. I have to believe that everything is happening for a reason, that in the next life if not before then I’ll understand the grand design behind this whole experience, that this is more than just the sum of my decisions, my choices, to date. And just maybe the choice to believe that is enough for today.
